README.md, before:

# Craftsmanship

## Description
   Craftsmanship is an application that runs on JVM. So there is no need further set up for run it.
   Basically, it provides apis to players for let them playing each other. Each player has 5 spaceship
   and at the beginning of the game coordinates of all spaceships are assigned. Then player can start to 
   sent salvos their opponent's. Player who can hit all points of opponent's spaceships will be won at
   the end of the game.   
   
##Overall Structure & Modules & Used technologies
	In the application, there is transactional architecture. On the top of the project javafx project is running to provide viewing of the status.(Xebialab.jar)
	
	On the other hand, backend application consist of 3 layer 	
	- Controller Layer: Catches Rest requests (PUT/POST/GET) and receives DTO objects/parameters.Then forward them to service interfaces in service layer (Rest Controllers: ProtocolController, UserController)
	
	-Service Layer: The layer actual algorithm works on. Via service interfaces controller sent DTO object to concrete service functions and map them do DO objects. After required operations and set up relation between domain object, this layer comminicate with persistance layer.
	
	-Persistance Layer: The layer comminicate with DB.In Craftmanship application, H2 in-memory database is used
	for providing effortless setup for interviwers. Thanks to Spring Boot, CRUDRepository interface is provided and it is used for saving/creating/getting data between layers.

	- Custom Exceptions: Custoom object are created for giving user more friendly experience with service apis.(TooMuchShotException,NotYourTurnException etc.) Exception handling provided by using ControllerAdvice and ExceptionHandler interfaces.
	
	- Domain Objects, DTO objects(Data Transfer Object), and mapper for transfering object between layers

## Overall Approach
	The most important part of this solution is how relations between entitties were set up at the beginning.
      
    We can think craftmanship Game is roof of the all relations. Under that hightlight;
      
    - Each Game has gameID, starting player, player turn, winner player(if exists) fields.
    - A game  has to have a Grid (one-to-one relation with Grid entity)
    - A game needs 2 players (one-to-many relation with Player entity)
    - And there is a spaceship protocol object in each game (one-to-one relation with SpaceshipProtocol entity) 
      
    - Each Player has userID, full name, number of shot right fields.
	- Each player has 5 spaceships at the beginning which contains one of each type of Spaceships (one-to-many relation with Spaceship entity)
	- Each player has list of Salvo (one-to-many relation with Salvo entity)
	
	- Each Salvo has a Coordinate (one-to-one relation with Coordinate) plus relational object with other entities		
      
    - Each Grid contains list of free coordinates, list of taken coordinates by spaceships, 16*16 board fields 
	- Each Grid has 10 spaceship on it (one-to-many relation with Spaceship entity)
  
	- Each spaceship extends Spaceship abstract class. Types: a class, b class, s class,angle, winger 
	- Each spaceship contains list of coordinates and also it equals to spaceship
	life (one-to-many relation with Coordinate entity)
	
  After this relation set up, the only thing it matters is rules of the game. According to rules corner cases
    should be covered up,too. 
    
 ## Functionalities
    - Players can create a new game as much as they can. After the game created, player starts to shot each other 
    - Self player can shot to opponent player as well as opponent player can shot to self player. Each salvo can have multiple shots.
    - If shot hit to part of opponent's spaceship, the spaceship will lose life. After a spaceship losing of the
    last life, it will be destroyed. 
    - If spaceships of one of player, he/she will be lose the game.
	
	- Player can view the status of the game by UI. the view containes all coordinates that player spaceships and known places about opponent's user. Known places means the coordinates of every salvo taht player did. That way player partially knows what is on those points.	
    
 ### Rules
    - ** Creating Game: ** While create a game, player information(userId, full name) needs to be different, otherwise it will throw an exception about trying againg with different information.
	
	- ** View the status of the game: **  Player can not see all points of opponent's grid. Salvo by salvo player will be known about the opponent's grid.
	
	- ** Fired by/ Fire To Opponent: **  there are different criterias while make a this functionality. 
		First rule of all, whether game over or not should be checked. If game is over, neither of players can not sent a salvo. 
		
		Second rule, player turn will be observed, if it is not turn of the player who
		sent salvo, game will give a warning about waiting for opponent's move.  
	
		Third rule,  player can sent a salvo which has a number of shots equals to number of living spaceships that player has.
		
		Fourth rule, if shot hit to a point which hit before, the shot counted as MISS shot. 
		
		Fifth rule, if shot hits the last point of a spaceship, it will counted as KILL shot and the spaceship will be destroyed.

 ### Custom exceptions
 
	- GameOverException
	- TooMuchShotException
	- NotYourTurnException
	- UniqueConstraintException
	- NotFoundUserException
	- EntityNotFoundException
  		
 ### Additional Assumptions
    ** If shot hit to part of own spaceship, salvo type counted as MISS shot. **
    ** For viewing the status of the game,  userID also needed in get request for responsing more sensible way. **
 
## Delivered Items
	- Source code
	- Xebialab.jar : for running UI
	- Craftmanship.jar : for running backend apis
	- run.bat: for automatically running the application.
	- README.md : it is under the root of project or can be found in github link
	
## Link
github repository link: https://github.com/SinemKalay/Craftsmanship

Commit message:

readme file update & winner mapping to DTO

README.md, after:

# Craftsmanship

## Description
   Craftsmanship is an application that runs on JVM. So there is no need further set up for run it.
   Basically, it provides apis to players for let them playing each other. Each player has 5 spaceship
   and at the beginning of the game coordinates of all spaceships are assigned. Then player can start to 
   sent salvos their opponent's. Player who can hit all points of opponent's spaceships will be won at
   the end of the game.   
   
##Overall Structure & Modules & Used technologies
	In the application, there is transactional architecture. On the top of the project javafx project is running to provide viewing of the status.(Xebialab.jar)
	
	On the other hand, backend application consist of 3 layer 	
	- Controller Layer: Catches Rest requests (PUT/POST/GET) and receives DTO objects/parameters.Then forward them to service interfaces in service layer (Rest Controllers: ProtocolController, UserController)
	
	-Service Layer: The layer actual algorithm works on. Via service interfaces controller sent DTO object to concrete service functions and map them do DO objects. After required operations and set up relation between domain object, this layer comminicate with persistance layer.
	
	-Persistance Layer: The layer comminicate with DB.In Craftmanship application, H2 in-memory database is used
	for providing effortless setup for interviwers. Thanks to Spring Boot, CRUDRepository interface is provided and it is used for saving/creating/getting data between layers.

	- Custom Exceptions: Custoom object are created for giving user more friendly experience with service apis.(TooMuchShotException,NotYourTurnException etc.) Exception handling provided by using ControllerAdvice and ExceptionHandler interfaces.
	
	- Domain Objects, DTO objects(Data Transfer Object), and mapper for transfering object between layers

## Overall Approach
	The most important part of this solution is how relations between entitties were set up at the beginning.
      
    We can think craftmanship Game is roof of the all relations. Under that hightlight;
      
    - Each Game has gameID, starting player, player turn, winner player(if exists) fields.
    - A game  has to have a Grid (one-to-one relation with Grid entity)
    - A game needs 2 players (one-to-many relation with Player entity)
    - And there is a spaceship protocol object in each game (one-to-one relation with SpaceshipProtocol entity) 
      
    - Each Player has userID, full name, number of shot right fields.
	- Each player has 5 spaceships at the beginning which contains one of each type of Spaceships (one-to-many relation with Spaceship entity)
	- Each player has list of Salvo (one-to-many relation with Salvo entity)
	
	- Each Salvo has a Coordinate (one-to-one relation with Coordinate) plus relational object with other entities		
      
    - Each Grid contains list of free coordinates, list of taken coordinates by spaceships, 16*16 board fields 
	- Each Grid has 10 spaceship on it (one-to-many relation with Spaceship entity)
  
	- Each spaceship extends Spaceship abstract class. Types: a class, b class, s class,angle, winger 
	- Each spaceship contains list of coordinates and also it equals to spaceship
	life (one-to-many relation with Coordinate entity)
	
  After this relation set up, the only thing it matters is rules of the game. According to rules corner cases
    should be covered up,too. 
    
 ## Functionalities
    - Players can create a new game as much as they can. After the game created, player starts to shot each other 
    - Self player can shot to opponent player as well as opponent player can shot to self player. Each salvo can have multiple shots.
    - If shot hit to part of opponent's spaceship, the spaceship will lose life. After a spaceship losing of the
    last life, it will be destroyed. 
    - If spaceships of one of player, he/she will be lose the game.
	
	- Player can view the status of the game by UI. the view containes all coordinates that player spaceships and known places about opponent's user. Known places means the coordinates of every salvo taht player did. That way player partially knows what is on those points.	
    
 ### Rules
    - ** Creating Game: ** While create a game, player information(userId, full name) needs to be different, otherwise it will throw an exception about trying againg with different information.
	
	- ** View the status of the game: **  Player can not see all points of opponent's grid. Salvo by salvo player will be known about the opponent's grid.
	
	- ** Fired by/ Fire To Opponent: **  there are different criterias while make a this functionality. 
		First rule of all, whether game over or not should be checked. If game is over, neither of players can not sent a salvo. 
		
		Second rule, player turn will be observed, if it is not turn of the player who
		sent salvo, game will give a warning about waiting for opponent's move.  
	
		Third rule,  player can sent a salvo which has a number of shots equals to number of living spaceships that player has.
		
		Fourth rule, if shot hit to a point which hit before, the shot counted as MISS shot. 
		
		Fifth rule, if shot hits the last point of a spaceship, it will counted as KILL shot and the spaceship will be destroyed.

 ### Custom exceptions
 
	- GameOverException: is thrown if  winner has already been specified. Further salvo is not allowed after that point.
	- TooMuchShotException : is thrown if requested number of shots bigger than shot right of  the player
	- NotYourTurnException: is thrown if player doesn't wait for other player move. 
	- UniqueConstraintException: is thrown if player information is used before.
	- NotFoundUserException : is thrown if there is no player appropriate  with user id in the game. 
	- EntityNotFoundException: is thrown if get game is requested with non-existing   game id.
  		
 ### Additional Assumptions
    ** If shot hit to part of own spaceship, salvo type counted as MISS shot. **
    ** For viewing the status of the game,  userID also needed in get request for responsing more sensible way. **
 
## Delivered Items
	- Source code both UI(name:Xebialab) and Backend(name:Craftmanship)
	- Xebialab.jar : for running UI
	- Craftmanship.jar : for running backend apis
	- run.bat: for automatically running the application.
	- README.md : it is under the root of project or can be found in github link
	
## Link

github repository link: https://github.com/SinemKalay/Craftsmanship

you can also import my postman test collection via https://www.getpostman.com/collections/45918c020bfdc3a5718e
